(initial mapbox image)
       This initial visualization was developed by plotting circles at the center of each census tract, coloring them by the percentage of properties that need boarding, and sizing them by the crime count. The result is a map that conveys insights in an efficient manner. We can see that blight appears concentrated in the Northeast and central sections of the city. Hamtramck and Highland Park are independent municipalities and thus not represented in Detroit’s data. It is interesting to note the high number of crimes on the waterfront at the center of the city despite this area’s low amount of blight. On the other side, many inner city census tracts have lower incidents of crime despite very high levels of blight. These observations run counter to my hypothesis and seems to confound the research that was done in Philadelphia and New Orleans. This is an issue worth exploring and I would like my data visualization to support some additional insight. However, there are also a couple of shortcomings in this visual technique that I believe can be improved on. Plotting circles at the centers of census tracts gives us a good approximation of where those tracts are located but it does not give us a sense of the size of each tract. This could be important since a larger census tract may have more people and higher crime counts. The US Census Bureau tries to define each tract so that it contains between 2,500 and 8,000 people; but this is a large range and could result in very different outcomes for the number of crimes committed in that neighborhood. I expect that understanding the geographical scope of the tract will add context to the metrics we are exploring. 
	I can add geographical detail to the census tracts because my GEOJSON contains the coordinates for each tract’s polygonal outline. After mapping the tract boundaries I experimented with different ways to encode my two variables. I tried to overlay the circles on top of the census tract boundaries and continuing to size them according to crime counts. This cluttered the map and many of the circles obscured the tract boundary underneath them. During subsequent research, I came upon some examples of 3-D extrusion mapping. With this technique I can use data to alter the height of each polygon as it is represented in 3-D space. This allows me to preserve the census tract shapes while also using them to convey numerical information. Mapbox offers a very performant option to produce such visualizations, and the maps can be customized using CSS and JavaScript code. This level of customization was important to me so that I could ensure my visual stayed accurate and loyal to the underlying data. I created a fill-extrusion map which allowed me to map out the census tracts, color each tract according to the percent of properties that needed boarding, and then set the height of each tract according to its crime count. I also added some interactivity, a legend, and some navigation tips using underlying JavaScript. This was accomplished with the help of JSFiddle, a free online software tool that provides a working environment for combining CSS, HTML, and JavaScript code. When the user hovers over a census tract they will see the number for that tract as well as a breakdown of the major crimes there in 2014. The visual can be seen in Figure ? and the fully interactive version is available at ?
[visual of final product]
Discussion of Results: Rendering the map with a 3-D height extrusion really helps insights stand out. The eye is immediately drawn to the taller census tracts. A quick analysis of the tract’s color can then convey how pervasive its blight issue is. It’s also easy to visually group nearby tracts that have similar heights. This helps to identify broader neighborhood clusters that might share characteristics. I also think that the interactive capabilities of the map make it especially impactful. A user can quickly zoom in and out as well as rotate perspective, which means the potential insights are numerous and dynamic. It is one thing to present memorable visualizations, but to be able to directly incorporate interactive input from the user is especially valuable. Finally, using this method, we can capture information about the size of a census tract since its relative shape is preserved through the extrusion. Thus, it is possible to visually consider the size of a census tract when analyzing its crime count. 
	Static screenshots from the visualization will be used throughout the rest of the paper in order to convey some of its potential insights. The visual gives us a pretty good idea about the geographical pattern of blight in the city. The South-Central core of the city, across the Detroit River from Windsor, has a very low amount of blight. From there, the blight problem emanates out in a half circle of red and spreads especially far to the east. The outer edges of the Detroit appear to contain less blight, possibly benefitting from their proximity to neighboring cities. We can confirm this pattern by shifting the map into an overhead view (Figure ?). This helps confirm our initial impressions and stresses that the blight issue is most acute in the North-East quadrant.
To shift our focus to crime, we can return to an angled plane of view. In our overhead, we saw that waterfront neighborhoods have low amounts of blight but there are several areas with noticeably high crime. This is especially true of Census Tract 5172 which we initially noticed although we noticed in the initial 2-D visualization. The extrusion map highlights how much more crime has occurred in the downtown tract at the waterfront. It’s height marks it as a clear outlier from the other census tracts. If I hover over that tract, I can see that the majority of crimes (~70%) that occurred there are for larceny. This brings us back to one of our initial points of interest in creating the visualization. Prior research in the field was inconclusive on how different types of crime relate to blight and the map offers the underlying capability to investigate further. If I remove larceny crimes from the data and refresh the map, I can obtain the visual seen in Figure ? Removing larceny clearly levels out the amount of crime from one census tract to another. There is still a remarkable amount of crime in that particular census tract, but now we can see that the more heavily blighted properties in the Northeast quadrant have high crime rates as well. This raises an interesting question about what other factors could drive criminal activity in an area with very low blight. Growing up in Michigan, I have made hundreds of trips to Detroit to visit family or attends sports/concert events, which gives me some credible familiarity in analyzing these patterns. Census tract 5172 is in a very heavily trafficked part of the city. It does not contain many residential buildings but rather sees a lot of visitors parking and patronizing restaurants during events. It also contains a large segment of Detroit’s above-ground public transportation rail. In other words, it is one of the busiest neighborhoods in the city and thus provides significant opportunity for criminals. 
This generated some questions about what types of crime I would intuitively assume were linked to blighted or vacant homes. I think that the most common type of crime that a blighted property invites is burglary. An abandoned property has little surveillance and could contain property or building materials of value. Some researchers have suggested (as in the Broken Windows policing theory) that blighted properties invite general criminal behavior because suggest lawlessness. This is an implicit criminal effect of blight. But blight can also serve as an explicit criminal incentive since the property itself is the target. Filtering the data to only include burglary crimes and refreshing the map provides a much different story (Figure ?) This view shows the central neighborhoods near the water have very low burglary rates while the number of burglaries seems to increase the further one goes out from the center. This makes sense considering that there are more residential properties away from the city center, which likely have fewer security measures. 
It is understandable why a busy downtown neighborhood would have a high count of larceny incidents, and why residential areas would have more burglaries, but these takeaways do not provide any insights into how blight can affect crime. Much of the literature on the subject suggests lower violent crime can be linked to blight remediation so I filtered the data to just look at homicides (Figure ?) The resulting map paints a clear and powerful picture. Almost all of the most dangerous neighborhoods in the city for homicide are neighborhoods where blight is the heaviest. This insight has significant potential for the city of Detroit or for any urban area dealing with the related issues of crime and blight. In Detroit it appears that a lot of instances of crime are driven by the concentration of people and, thus, the proliferation of opportunity. Burglaries appear concentrated on neighborhoods with residential buildings so to tackle this type of crime, a city should focus on remediating blighted homes instead of blighted industrial buildings or storefronts. In terms of making communities safer and lowering the rate of homicide, tackling blight should be a priority. My visualization shows that homicides center around neighborhoods with significant levels of blight.
Conclusion: I would consider this project to be a success. I was able to utilize two reputable data sources to put together a geographic visualization of crime and blight in the city of Detroit in 2014. The geographical scope was small enough so that I did not have to worry about the accuracy of the map projection. Using the technology available with Mapbox software, I was able to create a 3-D extrusion map with performant options for user interaction. The visual has been made publicly available at JSFiddle. I think that my technique provides a novel contribution to analyzing the relationship between crime and blight. There currently are no public extrusion maps for this area. 
       The map has considerable practical application. It tackles a serious issue that is affecting many cities across the United States. This is especially true of the specific city in this visual, Detroit. The map offers a dynamic way to identify where the city’s blight and crime problems are and how they overlap. There is a minimal learning curve for interacting with the map and it could easily be used by a city planning team or blight task force for prioritizing neighborhoods remediation efforts. Homicide is an obvious impediment to health and community well-being and should be a focus for cities to address. With my map visualization, I was able to quickly identify the neighborhoods where homicide crimes are the highest and see that these areas also experience blight problems. With this insight and the support of empirical research studies, there is a compelling case for the city to invest resources in those areas. 
       There were some design limitations with the visual that I was not able to overcome. In order to obtain my insights, it was necessary to filter the data by type of crime. Ideally, this could be accomplished with a user facing radio-button or drop-down list that the user could use to toggle between different types of crimes; and the polygon heights would respond dynamically. I believe that there are ways to integrate this capability using JavaScript but lack of time and experience ultimately prevented me from figuring out the necessary code. I think that the tooltip showing the crime occurrences provides context for the extrusion heights 

